we begin with breaking news from Gaza
where Israeli forces are carrying out a
raid on gaza's largest hospital alifa
the director of Health says he's heard
gunfire and the movement of Israeli
tanks inside the complex earlier a
doctor told alaz an Israeli air strike
had hit the fourth floor of the main
building well days of air strikes have
crippled alifa which is situated in Gaza
City in the north more than 3,000
patients medical staff and displaced
Palestinians are Sheltering in the
complex Dr Ahmed Malala is inside alifa
hospital he shared what he's been
experiencing there
overnight really more and more titer
it's really horrible here it has been
continuous bombing and firing uh since
the last let me say 5 hours almost the
Israelis uh tanks are moving towards the
shifa hospital I've seen two tanks
getting in the gate the main gate the
Eastern Gate of shifa hospital and they
were inside shifa hospital and we keep
hearing the tanks moving within the area
of shifa Hospital the bombing have been
really really aggressive over the last
few many hours with continuous uh
shooting you know all over the place all
over the areas you can know you don't
know from where exactly sometimes you
hear from the East the from the south or
from the West so it's totally like
surrounding the hospital and keeps
firing continuously with all kinds of
you know to the hospital the Israelis
have called the hospital Administration
around an hour ago saying that they are
uh getting in the hospital and they are
about to get inside the buildings and to
investigate and to try to check each
building one by one and each room within
the hospital and they advis the people
they asked them not to look through the
windows or the doors and that everyone
might be at risk if they doesn't do
anything so uh and then they said
nothing about the way of doing this they
said nothing about the mechanism of
getting in uh the the the weird thing
that since they ask about this thing
nothing has happened at least in our
building I can tell you and then the uh
you the the bombing and the shooting you
can hear it in ground didn't stop at all
sometimes it's really really very very
dense so uh so again the hospital is
full of patients have around 700
patients we have civilians within the
hospital Sheltering there are families
with kids with ladies and we have the
medical stuff so imagine how scary is
that to everyone here within the
hospital TK Abu AUM is live for us now
in kanun in the south of the Gaza Strip
T what's the very latest you're hearing
about the Israeli raid on alifa
Hospital yes uh the Israeli occupation
forces had turned up to shifat hospital
and managed to uh get into the buildings
of this medical complex after a series
of rounds of fighting between them and
the Palestinian fighters in the streets
and the buildings of Gaza Strip now the
Israeli Special Forces manag to right
now to stand in front of the Gate of
asifa hospital and even they get into
the main buildings searching for more
military infrastructure as they have
claimed since the early beginning of
this round of fighting now the
maneuvering troops uh and the Israel
artillery tanks are stationed in inside
and even in the yards of the hospital
and they have also open gun fires and
the yards of the hospital as there the
hospital is overwhelmed with patients
medical workers and even the uh
displaced people there are more than
around uh 30,000 uh Palestinians who are
residing inside the hospital now the
Israeli uh forces are really saying that
they are carrying out a precise military
uh operation inside the asifa hospital
based on accurate Military Intelligence
information about the targets that they
are wanting to eliminate but meanwhile
according to the director of Gaza
hospitals no pullet had been shot
against Israeli troops from the Isa
Hospital which give a clear sign that
the ISA hospital is clear and empty of
militants and the Israeli forces are now
searching inside the buildings of
hospitals looking for further targets as
the hospital is overwhelmed with
patients who are in deep need for uh
humanitarian and even medical support uh
in the current moment so uh this attack
on a shifa hospital uh is a clear
violation and according to the
principles of international knoww and
also the different uh Palestinian
factions have called The International
Community to send delegations in order
to check their reality on the ground and
of the Palestinian Ministry of Health
inside the territory also said that the
uh the situation on the in the shifat
hospital is catastrophic and they are
appealing for the International
Community to stop what is happening on
the ground as the patients life inside
this medical complex are in on the edge
of collapse as there is no any safe
passage out to be delivered to the
southern areas of the territory
T Israel claims to be targeting Hamas
but there's never been any evidence
provided of a Hamas presence at
hospitals yes always uh Israel had used
this protext in order to attack
different targets as they had as they
had previously uh set since the early
beginning of this fighting they are
talking about destruction of residential
neighborhoods are claiming that they are
centers for operation
or or command rooms that operat for the
Palestinian Fighters meanwhile they are
now inside the shifa hospital and even
throughout the previous rounds of
fighting that erupted between them and
even with with the Palestinian Fighters
they did not manage to prove any
evidence that really can uh can condemn
the use of uh this medical complex for
military purposes and these allegations
have been met by a wave of refugial and
even uh a disapproval by the Palestinian
faction and even the Palestinian
Ministry of Health which denied all of
this accusation and recommended the
International Community to be a
responsibility regarding what is
happening right now on the ground in a
shifa hospital T thanks very much for
that update well for more on this now
let's speak to Sarah kyat joining us
live now from rala Sarah we understand
that Israeli forces have released a
statement
they are they've confirmed uh the
current operation that's under way um
they also said that it's only happening
in a certain part of alifer Hospital of
course if you remember we've covered
this extensively how that hospital is a
huge uh one with multiple buildings
they're saying that they're only working
on a precise area they said this is all
based on their own intelligence and that
action was is was not intended to harm
patients medical staff and citizens they
also uh confirmed that um some of their
Medical Teams they said um are Arabic
speakers that have specific training to
prepare they said for this complex and
sensitive uh environment well of course
what we've been hearing from uh the head
of the hospital paints a very different
picture we also of course heard from the
Palestinian Authority Health Minister um
who has said that they're requesting
International protection for all of
those that are in the hospitals seeking
treatment um that that includes doctors
health workers and of course civilians
and displaced people because we know
there's around 7,000 of them that took
Refuge after the Israeli military itself
had warned uh people in the north to
move to the South so many of those are
taking Refuge uh there they also uh
called for the protection of all of
those people in that hospital under
international law and that they had
already reached uh the Red Cross but uh
according to the health Ministry for the
Palestinian Authority they said that um
the the Red Cross couldn't really uh do
much given uh the circumstances and of
course we've also heard from Hamas as
well condemning this and saying that the
US is also complicit in uh this and in
any deaths that are carried out against
uh those civilians that are H up now in
that uh Hospital uh because it said that
the US gave the green light to that this
is an extraordinary de velopment that
we're seeing folding out in front of us
never really seen anything uh like this
and of course uh speaking aler is
speaking to uh the head of that hospital
confirming um that there is uh nothing
uh that is harboring Hamas that there is
no command center as per Israeli forces
the reason uh the green card they said
that allowed them to go in according to
the Israeli forces is that there is a
command center effectively what they've
called as the Hamas Pentagon um now the
forces also did add the Israeli forces
um the military spokesman uh Daniel
hagari said that they are also there to
look for those hostages so perhaps based
on their intelligence they believe that
those are being held captive uh may be
held there of course more than
240 uh people are still held in Gaza
right now Sarat thank you in rala for us
there